---
layout: post
title: Ludum Dare 45 submission (Attack of the Red-masks)
tags: [Gamedev]
---

Designed for 2019's September Ludum Dare 45 hackathon, Attack of the Red-masks is a small videogame made in collaboration with another participant (Walfalcon), aiming to make a simple, yet fully functional platformer-action game.

I worked on the design and code, while Walfalcon worked mostly on graphics and helped flesh out ideas and provide valuable feedback. Many fun decisions were made - such as having to put a disclaimer that "jumping on enemies is not effective". I like how you can just read instructions as you go, and learn as you advance. After all, Ludum Dare 45's topic was "Start with nothing".

Speaking of "Start with nothing", that is what drove the level design:
· You start in a flat, empty area, and learn to move. Soon you stumble upon some obstacles, and learn to jump and get a feel for the controls. The obstacles are also made to teach you how high and how far you can jump.
· The next step is the enemies. You learn their movement (simple move left - right), and that they chase you. Again, the level design is deliberately made so you can notice that enemies will ignore you if you're 3 blocks above them.
· After you get your weapon, you are faced with a tall creature in a tunnel. If you have been abusing the dash command to sprint through enemies, this one will prove a threat, as it's 100% solid!
· Eventually you come across your ranged weapon of choice. The level design, again, is made so you can test its full potential.
· At the end, you're faced with a challenging section to test your skills. Beat it and you'll have beat the game!

I really enjoyed working like this. This mix of making a level that also implicitly showcases your tools is, in my opinion, one of the best ways to add a "tutorial" to your game.

The enemy AI is very simplistic. The oddest thing is that they detect certain invisible objects (I think they're visible in the itch.io version, by accident) to know when they have to turn around, rather than doing actual collision or ledge detection. It was a valid solution, since the levels are pretty limited in design (tile based) and their AI isn't complicated.

There is no boss fight because we ran out of time, and the game's controls wouldn't really fit for a boss battle without careful planning.

In my opinion, the project has been a success. It has a solid baseline that could be expanded further upon if we wanted to make it into a full-fledged game, while also providing a rather fulfilling experience on its own.

The main reason it has so few ratings is because of how Ludum Dare works: Once you submit your game, you must play other games and rate them, so people can see yours and do the same. We kinda skipped on this part since we, like many other people, participated more as an excuse to have a reliable deadline.

Link to the Ludum Dare 45 submission, with a itch.io link to play it for free online: https://ldjam.com/events/ludum-dare/45/$165642
