---
layout: post
title: The grind never ends
tags: Update
---

Is that what the kids call it nowadays? Either way...

The job's still there. I'm still hammering away at it and earning my keep. However, while it is comfortable in here, I feel like I'm stagnating sooo much, I'm about to become a fossil (a Java fossil working for a bank... if at least I was a COBOL dinosaur, I'd be getting paid big figures), no matter how much I study on the side. So, I think it's time to search for a new job, new horizons to cross, new lands to tread. Also new walls to hit and floors to trip on. It's what makes it fun!

Studies, yes - This year... past year (happy new year 2023! I'm only a month late) I have done a Coursera course on Machine Learning. Man was it dense. This is not your "learn how to use Tensorflow course" (I did one of those after this), this was a full on "make the mathematical algorithms yourself". I kept my mathlab exercises - doubt I'll use them, but it's always great having something you made yourself.
After that, I started studying Cybersecurity... in late October. Sigh. Don't get me wrong, I'm enjoying what I'm seeing, but I just wish I had started earlier, and joined a real course. Now I have to wait the whole year! I do have the saving grace that Cybersecurity is generally just certificates.
Shoutouts to r/cybersecurity and tryhackme.com

As for personal projects, here's where I'd talk about them... IF I HAD ANY! Sorry! Most of my creative drive feels fulfilled by other works, such as TTRPGs or projects inside games. Maybe I should give a tour of my Minecraft town in VR... it's a nice, relaxing place I built for myself.

Although I did toy around and made Game of Life on JavaScript... after making it in Garry's Mod with Expression2 (not recommended, that one's prone to crashing). (Warning: JavaScript heavy, may slow down weak computers) Check it out at <a href="https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/JackTheRedCreeper/website/blob/master/GOL.html">this beautiful link</a> - zoom out and scroll around!

Thank you very much for visiting and reading!
